== Welcome to SGC-Ruby-CUDA

SGC-Ruby-CUDA implements Ruby bindings to Nvidia CUDA SDK. It provides easy
access to CUDA-enabled GPU from a Ruby program.

SGC-Ruby-CUDA is incomplete in many ways. Currently, it supports only some
crucial CUDA Driver and Runtime API functions. We hope to expand the coverage
as much as possible.

SGC-Ruby-CUDA is tested on 64bit Fedora 14. We are looking forward to support
Mac OSX. We have not tested it against 32bit Linux OS and Windows. We certainly
wish to improve the code base to support multiple platforms in the future.
We also welcome CUDA users to test it against their working environments.

Current development will focus on supporting CUDA Toolkit 4.0.

Check out {file:doc/features.rdoc} for the supported CUDA features.
Also see {file:doc/devel.rdoc} for the latest development plan.


Fedora and the Infinity design logo are trademarks of Red Hat, Inc.

Linux is a registered trademark of Linus Torvalds.

NVIDIA, the NVIDIA logo, CUDA, GeForce, Quadro, and Tesla are trademarks or
registered trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation in the U.S. and other countries.

Windows is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United States
and other countries.


== Design philosophy

The Ruby bindings, Ruby CUDA API, which deal directly with Nvidia CUDA SDK C/C++
bindings retain the CUDA Driver and Runtime API in a systematic way whenever
possible. This facilitates developers familiar with CUDA C who should be able to
use SGC-Ruby-CUDA with minimum effort. At times, we may design the API to be
more Ruby-like and let go unnecessary API structure in modern programming
language.

We use Ruby-FFI as a bridge to call the CUDA C API. Ruby classes and methods to
are built on top. The use of Ruby-FFI would ease the support of multiple Ruby
interpretors.


== Prerequisites

* Ruby         (Tested with Ruby 1.9.2)
* Ruby-FFI     (Tested with Ruby-FFI 1.0.7)
* CUDA Toolkit (Tested with CUDA Toolkit 4.0)
* C++ compiler (Tested with GCC 4.6.0 but requires simple patch to CUDA Toolkit)
* Yard         (Tested with Yard 0.6.7, required for generating documentations)


== How to get SGC-Ruby-CUDA

The SGC-Ruby-CUDA git repository can be found in the following:

    http://github.com/xman/sgc-ruby-cuda
    git://rubyforge.org/rubycuda.git

The master branch can be checked out with the following command:

    git clone git://github.com/xman/sgc-ruby-cuda.git sgc-ruby-cuda
    git clone git://rubyforge.org/rubycuda.git sgc-ruby-cuda

The devel* branches may be checked out for a peep on the latest development.
However, they are highly volatile and _rebase_ may be applied for cleaner
commits. The devel* branches serve as grace period before commits move into
mainstream or master branches which are considered stable commits. This would
minimize unnecessary fixing commits.


== Getting started

    # Setup the environment. Assuming the CUDA Toolkit is installed in
    # the default path /usr/local/cuda.

    # For 64bit Linux only:
    export CPATH="/usr/local/cuda/include"
    export LIBRARY_PATH="/usr/local/cuda/lib64"
    export LD_LIBRARY_PATH="/usr/local/cuda/lib64:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH"
    export PATH="/usr/local/cuda/bin:$PATH"

    # For Mac OSX only:
    export CPATH="/usr/local/cuda/include"
    export LIBRARY_PATH="/usr/local/cuda/lib"
    export DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH="/usr/local/cuda/lib:$DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH"
    export PATH="/usr/local/cuda/bin:$PATH"

    gem install ffi
    cd sgc-ruby-cuda
    rake test
    # Check out the test cases in test/ on how to use Ruby CUDA API.

    gem install yard
    cd sgc-ruby-cuda
    rake yard
    # Check out the generated documentations in html/index.html with a browser.


== License

SGC-Ruby-CUDA is released under the GNU GPLv3. See the file COPYING.


== The Author

All kinds of feedbacks and bug reports are welcomed. Here is the author's email
address:

    shinyee@speedgocomputing.com
